Sulle note di Nadia Dandachi

Nadia Dandachi is a general physician and a pianist from Saudi Arabia.
She started playing the piano when she was 6 years old, and, at the age of 14, she became the first Saudi musician to win international awards in a piano competition. She became known as Saudi Arabia’s first professional pianist and has performed in several international events.  

When and how did you start to play the piano?

When I was 3 years old, I loved to play with a little piano toy that I had at home and I learned how to play a melody that my nanny used to sing. So, when my parents noticed that I had a talent in music, they decided to give me piano lessons when I was 6. I grew up in the early nineties in Saudi Arabia, and back then there were no music subjects taught in schools, no public musical events or concerts allowed, and music education and awareness were lacking for those reasons. However, I was very passionate about music when growing up, and my parents were always so supportive and encouraging, and they also loved music and the arts. So I took private lessons at home and was classically trained for a few years. I challenged myself by learning new and harder pieces regularly, composing my own originals, and I still enjoy doing that today.

What was one of the most beautiful experiences you’ve had in music?

My most magical experience was being First Prizewinner and winning the ISESCO Prize at an international piano competition when I was 14 years old in Rabat, Morocco. It was the first time that the Saudi flag was ever raised on stage in a music competition, and it felt like all my hard work had really paid off. Preparations for it started one year before, and during the last 3 months before competition day, I was playing at least 9 hours of piano daily. Another memorable achievement was being invited to represent Saudi women as part of a delegation at the United Nations in Geneva in 2018, where I had the honor to speak about my experience as a musician in Saudi Arabia. 

Why did you decide to study medicine at university?

I considered studying music at university, but I think that it is always important to have a passion in life outside of work, and medicine was the perfect choice for me since I ‘ve always loved science, reading, and helping people. I’m currently specializing in pediatrics in Germany, and I’m in love with what I do, and of course I always try to continue balancing my career in medicine with my passion in music. 


What would you say to a teenager who is fighting to achieve his or her dreams?
It’s important to remind yourself to do what you love and to stay passionate, regardless of what other people think, because everyone has the power to shine in their own way, and to push their own boundaries. At times it can be difficult to find motivation, but that’s why disciplining yourself to do the hard work is also important, because having passion without putting in effort is not enough. Remember to also enjoy the learning journey as you go. 

Who is your favourite pianist, or musician?

Ooh very difficult question! From older times, I would say my favourite classical composer 
from the romantic period is Frédéric Chopin, and from the modern days, I really admire Ramin Djawadi and Ludovico Einaudi. 


Do you have other hobbies?

Definitely! I really enjoy reading about several topics, doing sports and yoga, cooking at home, and binge-watching Netflix shows. 

What is your routine at the moment?

I’m working at a pediatric clinic and I’m enjoying it very much. I’m currently very focused on my career and medical specialization in Germany, so my routine consists of lots of learning and reading everyday. I don’t play as much music at the moment as before sadly, but I still always take some time to relax by doing yoga and meditation before going to sleep.

Have there been ever times you felt unmotivated and didn’t play music for a while?

Of course, we all go through phases were we don’t feel so motivated anymore. It rarely affected me playing music, but the key is to always push yourself even if you don’t really feel like it. By doing, you’ll feel good about your productivity and that will bring your motivation back! 

Do you compose music?

Yes, I have composed a few pieces of my own during a period in my life when I was feeling very musically creative. You can listen to them on my Youtube channel (https://www.youtube.com/c/NDandachi/featured). Writing the sheet music for my own pieces manually was actually a very fun new skill to learn, and I’m excited to write and create more music in the future!