The real American high school experience

In movies and tv series, we always get glimpses of what the American high school
experience looks like: homecomings, lunches at school, extra curricular activities, football
games,..
It sounds like a dream… But is that truthful?
To discover this, we have talked to some American high school students and collaborated
with “The Snapper”, the school newspaper of Key West High School, in Florida.
In the USA, like in Italy, high school starts at the age of 14 but lasts for only four years: it
consists of grades 9-12.
However, if in Italy we are forced to decide what subjects we will study for the following five
years by deciding what kind of high school we want to attend at 13, in the USA all students
are required to study English, math, science and social studies classes, as a part of their
schedule, along with 3 elective classes which they can decide and change throughout the
four years of high school. 
There, most students have a 7-period schedule and a period of time is mandated for
students to have lunch, whether they bring your own food or the school provides some for
them. “Although the [school] lunch can be questionable [at times], because of the
pandemic lunch is free for all students,” explained Siddarth Singh, a senior at Key West
High School (KWHS).
Furthermore, in the U.S., extracurricular activities are endless. “From chess club, to trading
cards, there really is something for everyone.”, disclosed Abigail Leach, a student at St.
Petersburg High School. In Italy, we are used to do physical activity outside of school but,
in the U.S., high schools provide all sorts of athletics: sports from swimming, to golf, to
lacrosse, to basketball, to football, and numerous other sports are offered. 
As we all dream about in Italy, in America, students really do have fun at school and not
just by taking part in clubs: there are numerous non-educational-related activities such as
pep rallies (cheerleading events), spirit weeks (generally week leading up to homecoming,
during which school students dress up in unusual themed clothing), and high school
dances, such as Winter Formal and Homecoming!
It is not all just fun though, “We have state exams, as well as a few required for college”
explained Abigail Leach. State tests start in 3rd grade and the last one required to be
taken is in 10th grade, which students take in May. Along with these, there are midterm
exams in December and then finals at the end of the school year.
During high school, in Italy, we constantly feel the pressure of deciding what career path
we would like to take and thus what subjects we want to study at university. In the U.S.,
however, a student can even decide what to graduate in during college. How lucky!
Furthermore, the process of applying to university varies: some community colleges may
let anyone in while high end schools tend to have higher expectations and qualifications.
They need to fill out what is called “Common Application”: you might be required to write
multiple personal essays as well as supplementary essays towards each college, which
are extremely important in the selection process. On top of these, students are required to
take the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) and American College Test (ACT).

Lastly, unlike in Italy, in the U.S. high school students get multiple breaks over the year: 1
week for Thanksgiving and spring break, 2 for Christmas, numerous weekends and half
days; and of course 2 months in the summer. What a dream!